OSDOCS-14523: Porting AWS MAPI features to CAPI docs (#94127)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/machine-feature-aws-imds-options.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/cluster_api_machine_management/cluster_api_provider_configurations/cluster-api-config-options-aws.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="machine-feature-aws-imds-options_{context}"]
= Amazon EC2 Instance Metadata Service configuration options

You can restrict the version of the Amazon EC2 Instance Metadata Service (IMDS) that machines on {aws-first} clusters use.
Machines can require the use of link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/configuring-instance-metadata-service.html[IMDSv2] (AWS documentation), or allow the use of IMDSv1 in addition to IMDSv2.

////
This is true but does not apply to TP clusters, reassess for Cluster API GA
[NOTE]
====
To use IMDSv2 on AWS clusters that were created with {product-title} version 4.6 or earlier, you must update your boot image. 
For more information, see "Updated boot images".
====

> ////

Reviewer: These lines are commented out, but [that link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1APbzIDc_Dc7GSD-8KTifQmPWfzMMxADj/view?usp=sharing) is still shown in the doc, maybe that link should also be commented out?

Author: Good catch!

include::snippets/apply-machine-configuration-method.adoc[tag=method-machine-template]

[IMPORTANT]
====
Before creating machines that require IMDSv2, ensure that any workloads that interact with the IMDS support IMDSv2.
====

.Sample IMDS configuration
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: AWSMachineTemplate
# ...
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      instanceMetadataOptions:
        httpEndpoint: Enabled
        httpPutResponseHopLimit: 1 <1>
        httpTokens: Optional <2>
        instanceMetadataTags: Disabled
# ...
----
<1> Specifies the number of network hops allowed for IMDSv2 calls.
If no value is specified, this parameter is set to `1` by default.
<2> Specifies whether to require the use of IMDSv2.
If no value is specified, this parameter is set to `Optional` by default.
The following values are valid:
`Optional`:: Allow the use of both IMDSv1 and IMDSv2.
`Required`:: Require IMDSv2.

[NOTE]
====

> If you plan to migrate an {aws-short} machine template that uses this feature to a Machine API compute machine set, you must set the `httpPutResponseHopLimit` and `httpTokens` fields to their default values.

Reviewer: Thank you @jeana-redhat for the link. 
[This link](https://github.com/openshift/cluster-capi-operator/blob/main/pkg/conversion/mapi2capi/aws.go#L440) you pasted is from MAPI to CAPI. But here you mentioned "If you plan to migrate an {aws-short} machine template that uses this feature to a Machine API compute machine set", so you should refer the CAPI to MAPI [link](https://github.com/openshift/cluster-capi-operator/blob/main/pkg/conversion/capi2mapi/aws.go#L282-L308).  
MAPI `metadataServiceOptions.authentication` is parity with CAPI `instanceMetadataOptions.httpTokens`, so we can set it with other values.
However, MAPI does not have other fields in CAPI, such as `httpEndpoint`, `httpPutResponseHopLimit`, and `instanceMetadataTags`, so these fields should be set to their default values. Or else the migration from CAPI to MAPI will fail [as mentioned in the code](https://github.com/openshift/cluster-capi-operator/blob/main/pkg/conversion/capi2mapi/aws.go#L293-L309).

> If you plan to migrate an {aws-short} machine template that uses this feature to a Machine API compute machine set, you must set the `httpPutResponseHopLimit` and `httpTokens` fields to their default values.

Author: ok so it seems I should change it to this:
```suggestion
If you plan to migrate an {aws-short} machine template that uses this feature to a Machine API compute machine set, you must set the `httpEndpoint`, `httpPutResponseHopLimit`, and `instanceMetadataTags` fields to their default values.
```

Before creating machines that require IMDSv2, ensure that any workloads that interact with the IMDS support IMDSv2.
====

.Sample IMDS configuration
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: AWSMachineTemplate
# ...
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      instanceMetadataOptions:
        httpEndpoint: enabled
        httpPutResponseHopLimit: 1 <1>
        httpTokens: optional <2>
        instanceMetadataTags: disabled
# ...
----
<1> Specifies the number of network hops allowed for IMDSv2 calls.
If no value is specified, this parameter is set to `1` by default.
<2> Specifies whether to require the use of IMDSv2.
If no value is specified, this parameter is set to `optional` by default.
The following values are valid:
`optional`:: Allow the use of both IMDSv1 and IMDSv2.
`required`:: Require IMDSv2.

[NOTE]
====
The Machine API does not support the `httpEndpoint`, `httpPutResponseHopLimit`, and `instanceMetadataTags` fields. 
If you migrate a Cluster API machine template that uses this feature to a Machine API compute machine set, any Machine API machines that it creates will not have these fields and the underlying instances will not use these settings. 

> Any existing machines that the migrated machine set manages will retain these fields and the underlying instances will continue to use these settings.

Author: @huali9 this is what @damdo and I landed on to explain this behavior. I feel comfortable merging this, but if you see any issues just let me know on Tuesday and I can make changes.
